---
layout:     post
title:      "Reading: 4 Rules of Simple Design by Corey Haines"
date:       2018-05-06 20:14:00
summary:    "Lessons learned from a person who observed thousands of pairs doing Conway's Game of Life." 
categories: 4 rules simple design corey haines
---

This is my partly paraphrased version of the book, which focusses on points I found enlightening.  

## Think carefully about what a well-written test looks like
The example he gave was this:  

```ruby
def test_a_new_world_is_empty
    world = World.new
    assert_equal 0, world.living_cells.count
end
```  
This is a reasonable test, but if you look at the test name it doesn't reflect what the test code is doing. The code is looking inside the world and counting the living cells in it. We should let the test be a mirror of the description. A better test would look like this:  
  
```ruby
def test_a_new_world_is_empty
    world = World.new
    assert_true world.empty?
end
```  

We can now see a more intuitive API forming because of this change. The consumer of the World class no longer has to check the number of living cells inside the world to know that it is empty. Instead, they can simply call `empty?`.

## Detecting duplication
To know whether there is duplication of knowledge, we should ask ourselves what happens if we want to change something. What effort is required? How many places will we need to look at and change?  

If there are multiple places you need to change, think about the concept that is being duplicated. For example, if we have `x, y` representing locations in many different places, we should extract that out into a `Location` class. 

## Placing a new method
Sometimes it's not immediately clear where to put a piece of code. In Conway's, it's unclear where to place the logic to get neighbours.  
  
It could belong in `Cell` because it has knowledge of its location. However, `Cell` has other responsibilities like figuring out whether it's alive or dead in the next generation.  

If we think about it, getting neighbours is entirely dependant on **location** and nothing else. So naturally it makes sense for the neighbour logic to belong in the `Location` class.  

Another thing to think about is if we don't know where something belongs, it indicates that we have a concept that isn't expressed well in our system.  

## Testing state vs Testing behaviour
Testing state:  

```ruby
def test_a_world_starts_out_empty
    world = World.new
    assert_true world.empty?
end

def test_world_is_not_empty_after_setting_a_living_cell
    world = World.new
    location = Location.random
    world.set_living_at(location)
    assert_false world.empty?
end
```  

Testing behaviour:  

```ruby
def test_an_empty_world_stays_empty_after_a_tick
    world = World.new
    next_world = world.tick
    assert_true next_world.empty?
end
```  

## Tests should be completely independent
The problem with the previous block of code is that is assumes that a new world will always be empty. If we change this to:  
```ruby
def test_an_empty_world_stays_empty_after_a_tick
    world = World.empty
    next_world = world.tick
    assert_true next_world.empty?
end
```  
The author has made a guideline that external callers can't use `new` to instantiate an object with an expectation of a specific state. Instead, there should be an explicilty named builder method to create an object in a specific, valid state. I like this guideline!

## Abstraction level

```ruby
def test_world_is_not_empty_after_adding_a_cell
    world = World.empty
    world.set_living_at(Location.new(1,1))
    assert_false world.empty?
end
```  
We are testing the behaviour of the world, but we are including details (the coordinates of the location) that it isn't concerned with and therefore breaking the level of abstraction.  
  
It would be better to mock this out/create a random location:  
```ruby
def test_world_is_not_empty_after_adding_a_cell
    world = World.empty
    world.set_living_at(double(:location_of_cell))
    assert_false world.empty?
end
```  
This highlights that we don't care about any attributes of the location object and reduces coupling of the behaviour under test. The result is a test that is less fragile because if we change the coordinate system, this test won't break.  

## Expressiveness before DRY  
Sometimes logic appears as if it is duplicated when the intent is not clear. Fix the expressiveness of your code before trying to reduce duplication.

## Procedural Polymorphism  
Common implementation for determining next state:  
```ruby
class Cell
    # ...
    def alive_in_next_generation?
        if alive
            stable_neighborhood?
        else
            genetically_fertile_neighborhood?
        end
    end
end
```  
Problems:  
* What happens if we add a new state? We will have to add a new elseif.  
* Why does it highlight the alive state and not dead?  
* If we add ifs to check if `state == ALIVE or DEAD`, this introduces a new problem where we may not have accounted for all possible states.  
  
Take a look at this:  
```ruby
class LivingCell
    def alive_in_next_generation?
        # neighbor_count == 2 || neighbor_count == 3
        stable_neighborhood?
    end
end

class DeadCell
    def alive_in_next_generation?
        # neighbor_count == 3
        genetically_fertile_neighborhood?
    end
end
```
The concept of dead and alive is separated out, making it easier to find where changes need to occur. If we need a new type of cell, we add a new class with new rules for determining the next state. We extend the system instead of modifying it.  

## Inverted Composition as a replacement for Inheritance  
Duplication of representing a location in the world:  
```ruby
class LivingCell
    attr_reader :location
end

class DeadCell
    attr_reader :location
end
```    

Inheritance - only promotes reuse but doesn't reduce duplication:  
```ruby
class Cell
    attr_reader :location
end

class LivingCell < Cell
end

class DeadCell < Cell
end
```  

Inverted Composition - `Coordinate` is responsible for the position in the world, whereas `Cell` determines the rules:  
```ruby
class Coordinate
    attr_reader :x, :y
    attr_reader :cell
end

class LivingCell
    def stays_alive?(number_of_neighbors)
        number_of_neighbors == 2 ||
        number_of_neighbors == 3
    end
end

class DeadCell
    def comes_to_life?(number_of_neighbors)
        number_of_neighbors == 3
    end
end
```