---
layout: post
title: "CSRF: Cross Site Request Forgery"
date: 2021-02-03 09:22:00
summary: ""
tags: security csrf
image: csrf.jpg
---

## What is it?
> **Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF)** is an attack that forces an end user to execute **unwanted** actions on a web application in which they’re **currently authenticated**. The attack targets state-changing actions from the victim to benefit the attacker.

So, for this attack to happen the victim must be authenticated somehow and intending to do some action which ends up doing something else instead.

## How does this happen?
Usually, you have to log in in order to do useful things on websites. For example, transferring money from one account to another.

Every time you do an action like that, the server needs to know that you are authenticated (or it won't perform that action). The ways in which websites do this is to automatically include a session cookie, IP address, Windows domain credentials, etc. with the browser request to the server.

Therefore, if the user is currently authenticated to the site, the site will have no way to distinguish between the forged request sent by the victim and a legitimate request sent by the victim.

**Example**
Alice wants to transfer Bob $100. Maria is the attacker who wants Alice to send $10000 dollars to Maria instead. This is what she will do:

1. Build a script that will execute that action without Alice knowing
2. Trick Alice into clicking on a link that will execute that script

TBC...

### References
[OWASP - Cross Site Request Forgery (CSRF)](https://owasp.org/www-community/attacks/csrf)
